SublimeHaskell 1.1.0
====================

This is a stability release. The main fix is smoother and more reliable interaction between _SublimeHaskell_ and the `hsdev` process. No lockups due to unread data in the pipes between SublimeHaskell and `hsdev`. This fix also improved the reliability of command that communicate with a subprocess, such as indenters.

## New Indenter: `hindent`

_SublimeHaskell_ now supports `hindent` via the _"SublimeHaskell: HIndent"_ command. Select a region and use your favorite indenter -- `stylish-haskell` or `hindent`. If you don't select a region, the indenter stylizes the entire buffer's contents.

## More Reactive Output

Output from tools and builds is now more "reactive", that is, you can see what's going on while the tool executes. Previously, _SublimeHaskell_ appeared to stall and presented the tool's or build's output when the command completed. Output appears in the build window as it is received.

## Issues closed

- 319:  "GHCI current file" does not work in current release.
- 316:  stack exec fails
- 314:  build on save no longer works with current release
- 308:  build seems to hang
- 307:  SublimeHaskell crashing on OS X
- 303:  Highlighting Issue with Indented Guards
- 302:  Add well known paths enhancement
- 298:  hsdev IO exception in stack-based project
- 294:  Disabling SH's built-in Syntaxes
- 291:  Syntax highlighting with single-line {-multi--line-} comment bug syntax
- 289:  can_complete_qualified_symbol not defined on every autocomplete action
- 281:  Command for stack exec needed to show output. enhancement

## Behind The Scenes: Refactoring

`sublime_haskell_common.py` was partially refactored into smaller logical and atomic modules with related functionality. The intent is to make it easier to scan and read the code, as well as simplify Python import dependencies. More refactoring in following releases...