*SublimeHaskell* 2.1.2
======================

SublimeHaskell 2.1.x is a minor release tree for enhancements and newly resolved issues.

## In this release

**Issue 366**: Word and default completions did not produce results, which became apparent while using the "none" backend. Removed the `inhibit_completions` setting because its purpose was confusing. Added two new settings, `add_word_completions` and `add_default_completions`. `add_word_completions` adds words in the source file that are more than three characters; this is a SublimeText feature that SublimeHaskell normally inhibits. `add_default_completions` adds the contents of the `Haskell.sublime-completions` file, which SublimeHaskell normally inhibits as well. Both settings default to `false`. (H/T to @Pastafarianist.)

## 2.1.1

**ghc-mod**: Completions now work again, modeled off the `ghc-mod/elisp/ghc-comp.el` code. It's not perfect, but it suffices to improve developer productivity.

**Issue 365 (partial)**: Fix dignostic message when SublimeHaskell doesn't accept the `prettify_executable` setting's value.

**Issue 364**: `SublimeHaskell: Test` actually invoked the `install` task, not the `test` task. Also added `SublimeHaskell - Test` to the "Build With..." menu. Issue fixed.

## 2.1.0

**Issue 352**: Add command line options for `stylish-haskell` and `hindent`. NOTE: These are lists, not strings.

## Upcoming Development Milestones

Upcoming development milestones, listed in order of priority:

### SublimeText 3 Syntax Files (Expected: 2.1.0)

There are numerous issues related to syntax highlighting. Syntax highlighting in SublimeText 2 was driven by collections of regular expressions. SublimeText 3 syntax highlighting still uses regexps and offers the ability to be more stateful. However, transitioning from _SublimeHaskell_'s improved ST2 syntax highlighting to ST3 syntax highlighting requires substantial work.

### The SublimeHaskell Editing Guide (Ongoing)

Documentation is always a good thing. The guide is a work-in-progress.
